# I want to create my own package and want to publish on npm.

0. npm != node package manager it is just package manager.
1. package.json file is the configuration for the npm.
2. What is bunlders ?
   --> It bundle together ur app so that it shift to production.
   a. create react-app ---> Uses webpack bundler
   b.
   ex: webpack, parcel, vite.
3. There are 2 types of dependencies :
   a. dev dependency : It is generally require in dev phase.
   b. normal dependency : It can also use in production.
   **TODO: Read More about it**

Note: we are using parcel as (-D ==> dev dependency) ---> npm install -D parcel
Note :
a. talde (~):If when there is major upgrade then parcel bundler will updrage it automatically when u put (^).

b. caret(^)==>If when there is minor upgrade then parcel bundler will updrage it automatically when u put (^).

Note: Safe to use caret than the talde. major upgrade could break our code.

4. What is package-lock.json ?
   --> Package-lock.json keep track of the exact version of all the transitive dependencies package and code of it is in nodemodules, whereas package.json keep approx track, In p-l.json there is "integrity"
   which as sha-512 hash ---> which matches the version of ur packages in dev phase and production phase whether it is similar or not.

5. What is node_modules ?
   ---> node_modules fetches all the code of all the dependencies are there contains the code of ur packages.

6. Why all the packages codes are there in the node modules ?
   --> Because now here u only download parcel but it could have its own dependencies that dependencies can have there own dependencies this is k/as **transitive dependency** so it load whole code.

How npm knows what all dependency parcel have ?
--> With the help of package.json and package-lock.json.

How many package.json and pacakge-lock.json we have?
--> To many [every package has it own]

Should we put our package.json and p-l.json on git ?
--> Yes , because it contains the configuration of our packages in p-l.json it contains intrgity:sha-512 exact key.

Why we don't put our node_modules in git or production ?
--> Because we can regenerate it using above 2 files. using command (npm install).

### npx parcel index.html

--> a. npm is to install a package
b. Want to execute a package then npx. It is simply an NPM package runner. It allows developers to execute any Javascript Package available on the NPM registry without even installing it. NPX is installed automatically with NPM version 5.2. 0 and above.

### Note: cdn links not good way to bring react project in ur app , do it using npm.

### But why it is not a good way?

--> To bring react using cdn there is network call (Costlier operation).

`<script type="module" src="App.js"></script>`
Now here it throwing the error at this line
Error : Browser scripts cannot have imports or exports.

F:\Web_Dev\Frontend-Course\Reactjs\02-Igniting_App\Lecture\codes\App.js:1:1

> 1 | import React from "react";
> | ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    2 | import ReactDOM from "react-dom";


    Note: This error is thowing because we inject our script in html so it is considering it browser
    scripts but we have to tell browser that it is not a normal js file but it is module.

    But why by setting our script type = module the error is resolved ?
    --> So , now this script file will consider as module. Scripts are intended to run directly whereas modules are imported.

### After this there was another error throws but after deleting .parcel-cache able to resolve that issue.

### Note: `.parcel-cache` is a directory generated by the Parcel bundler, serving as a cache for storing intermediate build results. It enhances the development workflow by speeding up subsequent builds and optimizing resource usage.

### What is parcel doing for us ?

[TODO: Read documentation]

- Parcel is doing dev build.
- Creating local server for us
- HMR - Hot Module Replacement (because of this it making real time updates on browser)
- Parcel is using File Watching Algorithm =>(Written in C++)

  - Using this algo parcel is keeping track of each and every save and after every save it is building our app again.

- Gives faster build ==> using parcel-cache.
- Image optimization ==>(Costlier cost in browser to load image)
- Minification of files
- Bundling
- Compressing the files [Removing white spaces]
- Consistent Hashing [TODO:Read_About]
- Code Splitting
- Differential Bundling - supports older browsers
- Diagnostic [Gives u beautifull error]
- Error Handling
- Gives us way to host our app on https
- Tree Shaking ==> If we have hundreds of lines of code is then parcel is remove that code for use.
- Different dev and production bundles

  Why our app becoming fast, how ur development experience amazing?
  --> There so many things which play a role to make it fast bundlers, react etc. [Not just react] But how it is doing because of above features. [ You can tell it in System Design Interview]

- How to create production build ?
  => npx parcel build index.html ==> This will give me error because in package.json "main=App.js" so it is conflicting with that. remove it.

### Note : When u are building the app in developement then then creating the files in dist folder and at local:1234 it accesing files from dist and it making update using dist and cache. So parcel is compressing all our files in the form of html,css and js files

`✨ Built in 13.94s

dist\index.html 349 B 10.42s
dist\index.9943d0b4.css 190 B 272ms
dist\index.38141cbf.js 139.01 KB 11.79s`

## We don't put self generative files on github

## We want to make our App compatible with most browser how to do this ?

--> By using browserslist in package.json. [https://browserslist.dev/?q=bGFzdCA1MCBjaHJvbWUgdmVyc2lvbnMg]
